Hi folks welcome back.
In this video we're going to start getting some actual gameplay in what we've created so far as a really
strong foundation.
But we're taking player inputs and repeating them.
So what we've done is created a trained parrot simulator.
Let's take those inputs and put them into our story.
This video is about a pending arrays and using If conditions.
So what do we need to do to use these player inputs.
Well the first thing we need to do is to prompt for player I need to tell the player what kind of input
I'm looking for.
So am I looking for a name.
Am I looking for a place.
Am I looking for a feeling that kind of thing.
Then I need to take those inputs and put them into play a wide array.
We need an array just for those player words then only to stop prompting the player when we have enough
stuff.
There's no point just continues the asking for things we need to know how many things it needs and when
to stop.
Then we need to take all these things and put them into our story.
So let's get to it.
He's a lovely lovely script.
OK so what's the first thing we need to do.
The first thing to do is create this play on words variable.
This is going to be an array.
I don't need to declare it like this but I'm going to just for readability when I come back to this
in a few months or someone else adds to my code.
They should be able to look at this immediately and understand what this does.
This is just halimi.
These are the words that the players are going to use and I could even put a little comment.
Like this.
Try to avoid using too many comments.
But if you have variables or functions that aren't immediately obvious but are important.
That's what we can do.
OK now we have an issue.
Remember a few videos back when I was saying that variables can exist in a function but they only exist
in that function.
That's what we have here.
We have three local variables play a words prompt and story.
We want these things to be accessed by multiple functions.
Now we could pass these things through to every function every time we call a function.
But that's going to get really messy.
So instead let's make these member variables and only select them and use Altern up arrow that's how
I'm doing this.
You'll see this unexpected indent error.
That's because we're not in a function.
We shouldn't be indented So let's just remove the indentation and put a little of space there.
So I want to put all my variables in one place.
Okay so we have this empty player words very well.
Now the scary bit let's get rid of this because I don't need the prompts to be Yand pizza full sized
cabbages.
I need it to be things like this and name a thing a feeling another feeling and some things.
Now if you prefer you can say proper noun now an adjective.
I'm going to keep this lyson loose so the next step is going to be to add things into this player words
array.
So let's go down to this text box text and add function whenever new text is coming in.
I'm only going to use this one because if they press the button.
We're just calling this function.
So either way we're coming here and I don't want to do this right.
I don't want to repeat whatever the player said.
Instead I want to take what they've said and add it to the list.
So what I want to do is when the call is new play or words thing and it's an array which means I have
special commands available to arrays.
And in this case I want to use append.
So what am I appending.
Well I'm a pending new underscore text whups new underscore there is text so whatever evented add it
to this list lets just check that works.
By printing player words and remembering to put that in brackets.
Let's try doughnuts.
We all onion biology is a history but biology.
Not even sure.
Great.
Every time we enter it's adding to the array and we can see that done here.
OK.
So that's not what we wanted to do.
So we can hear that print command and these empty lines what do we want it to do.
Well we want it to prompt the player we need it to say can you give me this point.
So let's really function down here.
We call this prompt underscore player I remember my brackets and I hold on and I'm going to write pass.
The convention is that function names are going to be lowercase.
The reason that these have upper case is that they're calling nodes and those nodes are upper case.
So what's going to happen on prompt player.
Well we're going to display some text and we know how to do that right when we use the dollar sign.
Blackboard and down here the story text what text do we need to display update text equals.
And let's put this in brackets because I'm going to take some strings that I'm going to give it and
I'm going it can katin make them.
Can I have a space katin in the value prompt.
Please.
And I like to put spaces after my punctuation because that's how I do.
Okay so what have we got here.
We've got a string.
Can I have a looking katin note in the variable prompt please except prompt isn't just a variable It's
an array.
Now an array is a type of variable.
But if we do this here's what it's going to say Can I have a name a thing a feeling another feeling
some things.
Well first thing I've noticed is I don't need this A because of Britain I'm up here so let's get rid
of a
I don't want all of these things to come in.
I want one to come in.
There's a few ways we could do this.
One thing we could do is we create a new variable costs then like word count.
And then every time they enter text we can say a word count and add to it.
And that'll work fine.
But it's not what I would call elegant the more elegant way of doing this is to use what God is already
doing.
So let's remind ourselves what that is.
What better way to do that than with a doodle.
First time our drug got oh here's my little god.
I realize it's not actually the Mascotte but I like drawing this figure someone to draw this one.
It's got little eyes and a smile and a nose He's so cute.
OK.
So on the way back to him way then great.
What needs to happen.
Well we've got our ray which I'm going to continue thinking about as a shelf for now because I find
that helpful.
And this is our prompt array.
And it has a number of boxes.
Now remember how God counts them.
Well it doesn't do is actually counted doesn't go.
This is number one this is number two this is number three now.
Godso isn't counting.
It's moving.
So we've given it some instructions which will be in this little blue card and it's going to look at
this blue card and think OK this little blue card has a number one on it.
How many spaces do I have to move.
And it'll count how many spaces to move.
This is moving zero.
This is moving one.
This is moving to.
This is moving three so it's going to take a look at this and move one space and grab this value.
This is really helpful because we've just created another shelf another array.
We've called this play of words.
Now what it's doing is it's adding boxes in.
But we can say okay tell me how many things are in here.
Actually count them.
How do I count them.
I'm going to use a specific method for arrays in this case.
I'm going to use size with brackets on it and this will count how many things are in here.
And then the instructions I'm going to give it are going to be count these and move that many spaces.
So how's that looking cold.
Well I need to tell it don't give me the array.
Give me a certain thing within the array.
So I'm going to give it the array brackets okay.
This tells it find a number within the array so this would be index zero which is thing zero right.
Move zero along.
That'll be a name.
I don't want to use a number here.
I want to tell it to count the things Mplayer words so I'm doing plougher underscore words dot signs.
Size is counting not moving right.
It's going to return an integer.
How many things are in play or words at the moment.
Well when we first run it it's 0 which is really useful for us because 0 is the first thing right now
prompt player isn't happening anywhere so let's put it someplace let's put it at the end of text entered
a prompt under score play.
And I also want it at the beginning of the story prompt underscore player.
And while I'm here.
This won't work right in ready.
The first thing we're doing is telling the story.
The story won't be ready.
So let's get rid of that.
This is going to keep happening forever and there's going to be an issue because well I'll show you.
It's going to keep happening for ever.
One two three four five.
There's an issue.
What's the issue.
It's trying to count along this prompter rate and it's run out of things so at some point it needs to
stop.
We need to check how many things are in here.
I want to create a brand new function and I'm going to call it Czech player word length.
It's a little long and clunky but I can look at it and see exactly what it is.
And if I've picked a name that's not sure I can write ascription here.
I'm not going to because I want to keep the amount of comments down.
OK.
How are we going to check the player work length for this.
I'm going to use an if statement.
Right.
If thing.
Clearly that's not what it's going to say.
But there's a few things we should know about it's first thing when I'm in an IF statement.
It'll indent everything in its indentation is a new code block being wrong here.
There's three things I can do.
I can do another if statement here.
I can do an l.f. and I can do an else.
Alright what do these mean.
If.
Thing.
So if thing is true or if thing is greater than zero whatever we want right.
If this condition is met do all of this stuff.
It'll do this and then pass onto the next one and the next one says if other thing do whatever's in
here now because these are both.
If what it'll do is it'll run 24 whether or not 24 works whether or not it's true.
It'll move onto 28 if I don't want that to happen.
I can use.
Else if.
If nothing above me has happened check this.
If this is true do this code.
If it's not move along.
Else is a catch all.
If nothing else in this condition has worked do this OK.
Clearly thing other thing and stuff is not what a code needs to look like.
So what do I need to do.
I want to check the player word size against the prompt size so I'm just correct that.
A quick reminder if I use one equal I am setting a value which doesn't make sense.
If check player word's size set now set it to prompt size that makes no logical sense.
One equal a set two equals is check.
So if a player what size is the same size as the prompt size.
In other words if we have 1 2 3 4 5 in this cases things in here stop asking for props instead create
a brand new function and this function is going to be.
Tell story I shall write it here for now sir remember it's there.
It's not going to do anything to put that in.
So if it's there tell the story what if it's not there.
Well if that's not true.
Else.
Prompts the player.
So what we've created is a really simple if this is true then do this.
If it's not asked the player and this will keep going to its right.
OK.
So let's actually get it to tell the story.
So what do we need for that.
Well we need blackboard story tax because that's what we're doing.
Text equals what doesn't need to equal.
It has to be story with Claire underscore words in there.
We're almost done.
The one thing we need to do is actually call this function.
I make this mistake so many times are write a function and then wonder why it's not working and then
realize I haven't actually told it to work now because I'm doing it else prompt player I don't actually
need this promptly here.
So I'm going to put it right here instead of complex sort of prompting the player check to see if you
need to check play a word length.
All right let's give this a test.
Can I have a name.
Rick.
Rick can I have a thing banana.
Can I have a feeling slightly uneasy.
Another feeling dis com Bobby lated.
That's a tough word to type at this time of day.
And some things Katz.
Once upon a time a rick a banana and felt slightly uneasy.
It was a discombobulated day for all good cats.
Look at that.
We have some real function out here.
Which brings me to the challenge.
What I'd like you to do is take the script we've got so far and add a brief introduction to the player
when they first start the game.
So rather than just openings what we have which is can I have a name start with something like welcome
to Luni lips or hi you.
Or how you gonna say it.
Tell them what the game is and then move on to the player.
So give it a go.
Pause the video and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
How can we do this.
Well the first thing I do is put an introduction right here.
I could create a variable the rest of it but I'm going to do this one time.
There's no point so blackboard story text or text equals what I'm going to say.
Welcome to lunar eclipse.
We're going to tell a story and have a lovely time because why not tell them what we're going to do.
OK.
Now if I run this what is actually to do is play the introduction immediately remove the introduction
and then the player.
So let's copy this in.
Ha ha.
And I don't need that.
And I'm going to put all this in brackets so that it knows it's all one thing.
Welcome to Luni lips.
We're going to tell a story.
Have a lovely time.
Can I have something please.
Now before we go any further this is one big chunk of text.
I want to put some line breaks in.
But the sex up a bit.
However if I try and put one in here.
God is going to complain because they cannot put a line break in the middle of a string just by pressing
Enter.
So to do this I'm gonna use an escape character his backslash.
N that's the escape character in a string for a line break and haunt here and I'm going to put one right
here.
And then finally I'm going to remove prompt player right.
I don't need prompter player because I've got it here.
So let's try that.
Welcome to Luni lips.
We're going to tell a story and have a lovely time.
Can I have a name please.
And I'm going to get rid of this space to make it look a little bit better and maybe put in a second
one under linae Lips get rid of all these spaces I don't need.
And I play that.
Perfect.
Exactly what we need.
Quick heads up by the way there is currently a bug in the game that you should be aware of.
We're going to fix this a little later.
But just so you know it's there.
If I start the game right now.
And tell a story Let's see some numbers one two three four five.
Great.
If I type anything here the game is going to crash right and this is going to come completely unresponsive.
You're going to have to go back into God and press stop.
The reason is we're providing extra inputs extra player words and it doesn't know where to put them.
There's no prompt to ask for the next one.
So just be aware there is currently a bug we are going to fix that.
Which brings us the end of this video.
Lot of concern here.
We've learned how to find a specific entry in an array by Finers index.
We've learned how to use the append and size methods of an array.
And we've started using an if else condition to check if we still need words from a player.
So the next video we're going to start creating multiple stories and put them into a template.
Our game is almost complete.
Great work so far and soon the next video.